The President: Hi, everybody.
It's now been 45 days since
I nominated
Judge Merrick Garland to the
Supreme Court.
Judge Garland is a man of
experience, integrity,
and unimpeachable
qualifications.
Judge Garland is someone who
Senate Republicans are on
record saying is "a man of
accomplishment and keen
intellect;" a man who's
"honest and capable; "
a man whose "reputation
is beyond reproach."
Those are all quotes from
Republicans in the Senate.
But so far, most Senate
Republicans have refused to
even meet with
Judge Garland.
Which means they've also
refused to do their job and
hold a hearing on
his nomination,
or an up-or-down vote.
But they've still found time
to head home for recess over
the next week.
This is an abdication of the
Senate's responsibility.
Every Supreme Court nominee
since 1875 who hasn't
withdrawn from the process
has received a hearing or a
vote.
For over 40 years, there's
been an average of 67 days
between a nomination
and a hearing.
This time should
be no different.
This is not about partisan
politics - it's about
upholding the institutions
that make our democracy
work.
There's a reason Judge
Garland has earned the
respect of people from
both political parties.
As a young lawyer, he left
a lucrative private firm to
work in public service.
He went to oversee the
federal response to the
Oklahoma City bombing.
For the last 19 years, Judge
Garland has served on the
D.C. Circuit Court - often
called "the Second Highest
Court in the Land" - and
for the past three years,
he's served as that
court's Chief Judge.
In fact, Judge Merrick
Garland has more federal
judicial experience than any
other Supreme Court nominee
in history.
With a brilliant
mind, a kind spirit,
and a good heart, he has
dedicated his life to
protecting our rights, and
ensuring that the voices of
everyday Americans
are heard.
So there is absolutely
no reason for Republican
Senators to deny him the
basic courtesy of a hearing
and a vote - the same
courtesy that has been
extended to others.
This refusal to treat a
Supreme Court nomination
with the seriousness it
deserves is what makes
people so cynical
about Washington.
That's why poll after
poll shows a majority of
Americans think Senate
Republicans should do their
job; give Judge
Garland a hearing;
and give Judge
Garland a vote.
For all of our
political differences,
Americans understand that
what unites us is far
greater than
what divides us.
And in the middle of a
volatile political season,
it is more important than
ever that we fulfill our
duties - in good faith
- as public servants.
The Supreme Court must
remain above partisan
politics.
I've done my job - I
nominated someone as
qualified as
Merrick Garland.
Now it's time for the
Senate to do their job.
Give Judge
Garland a hearing.
Give Judge Garland
an up-or-down vote.
Treat him - and our
democracy - with the respect
they deserve.
Thanks for listening, and
have a great weekend.